Slavic Squad Asian Squad Primal squat I
don't really care what you call it but I
like to call it the Deep Squad there are
three basic things you need to do this
skill ankle flexion knee flexion and hip
flexion when all three of those are
combined you are able to do a deep squat
with the heels all the way down on the
ground pretty much everyone has seen
calf raises but your goal is to get a
maximal stretch at the bottom and a
maximal flex at the top but you don't
want to stop there because the
gastrocnemius which is the ball of
muscle right here is not the only muscle
in your calf you also have a muscle
called your Soleus which you primarily
Flex when your knee is bent so you do
the same process but with a bent knee
you can also do it by just piling weight
on your knee and doing it like this you
absolutely can progressively overload
this like a bodybuilder but since we're
focused on range of motion I would just
recommend 10 reps one set super simple
but we're not done yet we're gonna kick
it up a notch with passive stretching
all all you have to do is lift your toes
up keep the knee straight and bring your
body close to the wall just like this
hold that for a full 30 seconds then
rest then hold it for another set of 30
seconds but remember that's just your
gas stock so you're also going to want
to bend the knee and do the same thing
if you stay consistent do that one to
three times a week for a month I can't
see why you wouldn't have that ankle
Mobility by the end of that month wow
pretty nifty if you ask me now the knees
are a little bit more complicated
because when there's a lot of pressure
in the knee it hurts for some people so
instead of just going into a knee
stretch all willy-nilly I'd recommend
doing some strengthening first if you
get a chair just like this all you have
to do is put your foot on top of it and
try and get to a maximal Bend of the
knee we're without pain and then press
out of it by doing this you're
lightening the load so there's not so
much pressure being slammed into your
knee the whole time my preferred method
is to do a bunch of reps like 50 of
these reps in a row of just as low
intensity movement but if that's not
your style it's okay to ease into it and
to kind of just hold there or even just
pulse it into it do whatever feels best
for you and there's one more thing you
can try if your knees are still
bothering you we can do a joint
mobilization but be aware that on the
hard floor it definitely hurts so maybe
do this on a bed in a blanket a pillow
or something like that all you have to
do is place a towel or just your hand
behind the knee joint just like this
sit back towards your heel only as far
as you can comfortably go and you should
feel a whole bunch of pressure build up
in your knee this should not be painful
whatsoever if it is please back off the
stretch and consider trying something
else first but typically this allows you
to gain a little bit of range of motion
in your knee if you do have those
restrictions it's your choice to either
hold it for 30 seconds or do 30 reps but
just know that 30 reps is pretty
exhausting and last but not least we
have our hip mobility again grab a chair
but this time you're going to be sitting
on it just like so widen the legs as
much as possible grow tall keep the back
perfectly flat so don't let your back
around or extend keep it flat and just
sink forward toward the floor and pause
where you feel that stretch you're going
to feel a significant stretch through
your groin maybe in your glutes
sometimes in your back all of those
places are good places to feel it if
you're comfortable with your back and
you don't have back pain you can also
try letting the back relax and sinking
deeper into the stretch once you get a
little bit more advanced you can grab a
weight and do it with a little bit of
weight to get a deeper stretch as you go
but that step isn't completely necessary
treat this one like a normal strength
exercise and I recommend three sets of
10 reps if you treat all those things
seriously and do that consistently over
time a deep squat is going to be easy
for you sooner rather than later stay
flexy